What does it do? (600 words) What is the state of the art of this new technology? What can be done now? What is likely to be able to do be done soon (say in the next 3 years)? What technological or other developments make this possible?

What is the likely impact? (300 words) What is the potential impact of this development? What is likely to change? Which people will be most affected and how? Will this create, replace or make redundant any current jobs or technologies?

How will this affect you? (300 words) In your daily life, how will this affect you? What will be different for you? How might this affect members of your family or your friends?

Cybersecurity
	1 What does it do?
		Cybersecurity is the term used for reducing the risk of access to digital systems over the internet*. It involves encrypting the signals sent over the internet*, creating systems that are harder to access for unauthorised individuals, as well as more difficult to automate attempts to access (cryptography). In this way, it secures data at three points - the end user's machine, the server sending the data, and the infrastructure that transmits it.
	2 What is the likely impact?
	3 How will this affect you?

Machine Learning
	1 What does it do? Machine learning is artificial intelligence, wherein massive amounts of data are compared to create probabilities, used in or as decision making. 
	specific techniques
	artificial general intelligence
	neural networks
	statistical analysis
	gpt-3
	statistical analyses based on human text - terabytes of it - and then trains itself based on statistical frequencies to produce human like
	deep learning is where the computer does the learning - nobody is guiding it, or programming.
	from the training set - artificial neural networks - real world data, and from that it produces an output - either a prediction or clarification
	supervised, semi-supervise and 
	unsupervised gets given a data set, and by using some sort of feedback loops, it is able to set up connections that model the data
	supervised training set is one which the models for success are manually applied by the operator or programmer
	2 What is the likely impact?
	3 How will this affect you?

Natural Language processing
	What does it do?

Natural language processing (NLP) is a branch of artificial intelligence that helps computers understand human language. It is the art of teaching a computer how to read and speak “like a human”. We use NLP more often than you think as it is integrated into our everyday life such as Speech recognition (Siri, Alexa, Google Assistant), ChatBots (The little chat boxes that appear on the bottom of websites offering modern-day virtual assistance for common issues of the customer) and Spellcheck (I am currently using Grammarly to structure these very sentences). Generative Pre-trained Transformer 3 (GPT-3) is an autoregressive language model that uses deep learning to produce human-like text and is one of the most advanced examples of NLP. It has a capacity of 175 billion machine learning parameters.The quality of the text generated by GPT-3 is so high that it is difficult to distinguish from that written by a human, which has both benefits and risks.

 What is the likely impact?

A major way that NLP could impact the world is that as computers become better understanding complex “human language”, such as differentiating  between when you yell “FIRE!” At a building that is on fire versus “FIRE!” When you tell say a marksman to shoot. Or another example would be when you say the word “sheep” and it looks in its language database and finds the word sheep but will probably then proceed to tell you that a sheep is black. It won’t say that the sheep is white because its very rare that we have to say a sheep is white as it is perceived as ‘common-sense’.
It is when that computer can understand these ‘common-senses’ and important contexts in when words are said that we will be able to have seamless conversations about deep subjects and with emotions. Robots will be able to have AI that can talk just like you and I do. You could see NLP integrated even more into our everyday life, it could lead to a major upheaval of the service sector as you could potentially see AI with advance NLP replace the need for actual humans

 3 How will this affect you?

	3 How will this affect you?

Raspberry Pi/Arduino/Makey Makey/etc
	1 What does it do?
		Single Board Computers are small devices, commercially sold, commonly under the names "Raspberry Pi", "Arduino", "Makey Makey", and others. They differ from regular computers [in that their design is a single board, rather than with a separate graphics card, RAM, and 
	2 What is the likely impact?
	3 How will this affect you?
