What does it do? (600 words) What is the state of the art of this new technology? What can be done now? What is likely to be able to do be done soon (say in the next 3 years)? What technological or other developments make this possible?

What is the likely impact? (300 words) What is the potential impact of this development? What is likely to change? Which people will be most affected and how? Will this create, replace or make redundant any current jobs or technologies?

How will this affect you? (300 words) In your daily life, how will this affect you? What will be different for you? How might this affect members of your family or your friends?

* denotes a marker where a reference might be needed.
** denotes a marker where more than one reference can be used.
^ denotes further research needed

Cybersecurity
	1 What does it do?
		Cybersecurity is the term used for reducing the risk of access to digital systems over the internet*. It involves encrypting the signals sent over the internet*, creating systems that are harder to access for unauthorised individuals*, as well as more difficult to automate attempts to access (cryptography). In this way, it secures data at three points - the end user's machine, the server sending the data, and the infrastructure that transmits it.
		Cybersecurity is vital for modern infrastructure, as it prevents forseeable attempts at compromising secure data, such as customer records, proprietary technology, trade secrets, and other vulnerable or personal information.
		Cybersecurity assets include encryption 
		Cybersecurity often covers the following key areas:
		The SOC (Security Operation Centre) which involves putting perimeter control processes in place to protect systems and access to the network. A small internal team with outsourced SOC functions will respond to breaches in security by isolating end user machines. Examples include someone who has been phished, where the SOC team will do diagnostics to ensure that no malicious code remains.
		Data privacy policies ensure that controls, process, and other policies in place, are all made with respect to the tight control of data classification and handling, by [...]^ To determine the level of control that you put around it. User Access Management pertains to various clearance levels a user may have for their industry. For example, a computer system might have admin user versus end-level users, wherein admin has the ability to change settings that the end-user could not. In addition, users may have only access to data relating to their job: A risk manager would not need access to systems that had customer data, and a customer service operator would not need access to systems that had risk management data.
		IT Governance risks and controls - SOX (Sarbanes Oxley) is an American legislature pertaining to financial reporting*. It is being implemented here*, dealing with the accuracy and completeness of IT applications and general controls from a financial reporting perspective. What is paramount here is protecting whatever sensitive data (critical encryption keys, etc) may exist in the respective industries in which cybersecurity is implemented. ^
		Business-facing security architects - to make sure that all new initiatives have one or more cybersecurity employees involved for consideration of cybersecurity risks.
		Cybersecurity and privacy education is essential to good cybersecurity, as the human factor is one that is easily manipulated, especially in a large workforce. In particular, payroll employees, finance. They must ensure that cybersecurity is front-of-mind for the employees, to ensure that the organisation is making decisions that are always taking into consideration data loss, particularly in sensitive industries which are heavily regulated.
		NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology) is an American organisation which advises its members of frameworks that can be used to increase cybersecurity*. These can be helpful for completing an asessment of an organisation for identification^ of gaps in security and risks apparent. The next phase is then to protect that information systems and assets through examples like user access management (above) or encryption of data. Then the organisation would have a provider such as RSA*^ who have action360 as a tool*. It looks for phishing sites, it scans social media for references to the organisation, it searches for any other kind of malicious sites. They would, in the detect piece, be looking at their current software, operating systems, all internal systems and determining whether there are patches that need to be put in place, or whether there are any zero-day vulnerabilities*(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zero-day_(computing)). Following Detect in the NIST framework is to respond, generally organisations will have a response plan, communications, forensics and mitigation activities. Then recover the systems to normal operations using recovery plans, impementation of patches and restoring affected systems.
		Up to 582 words.
	2 What is the likely impact?   https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_data_breaches

There are many examples of what happens when organisations get their computer assets security wrong. Refer to List of Data Breaches * https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_data_breaches
 for a dynamic list of Data Breaches. 
 
 
 
 The main methods indetified for for data loss are due to hacking, poor security, accidently published and inside job
 
 The key impacts and outcomes for oganisations are :
 Significant reputational damage, due mainly to the fact that customer records are often exposed. This can be signifantly more problematic dependant on the industry.  
 Financial impacts, such as regulatory fines, customer remediation and costs related to restoring the systems, assets and implementing the effective controls. Operational impacts, systems could be down and therefore the company may not be able to operate( e.g Sony), resources are divereted solving the problem, or have to divert to manual processes.
 Loss of IP - significant intellectual property may have an adeverse effect on a company as this can be used in very competitative markets.
 Legal action my customers - class actions are common place today where data breaches have occurred with many examples avialable.
 
 
  Some notable Data breaches
 Sony* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sony_Pictures_hack Marriot* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ hacker group Guardians of peace* relaesed confidential data from Sony. It was vbeleived to be a state sponsored attack. The public release of a yet to be realeased film were among the threats, as well as expsoure of employee data and salaries.
 Marriott_International#Data_breach Starwood 2018 Breach Marriot initial advised upto  500 million guest records were exposed, however later revised this to 383 million. It was beleived to be a state sponsored attack.
 
 
	3 How will this affect you?
	
	As mentioned above the key effect of poor cyber security practises can have a deterimental effect of individuals through data loss. Whether you are working for an organsation like Sony and your employee information is leaked or you are just a customer of the Marriot and you personal data, such as credit cards, address, DOB are relaesed the results. The results can be far reaching, upto and including impacting mental health difficulties. It was reported that the Ashley Maddison breach* resulted in users taking thier own lives as a result, breaking up seemply happy families and costing individual in many other ways. 
	Identity takeover is another significant issue for individuals. years of dealing with the resultant fall out, initially this may be just getting your money back into bank accounts, having to replace personal documents such as passports or years later having to fix credit ratings due to loans being taken out under your name. 
	

Machine Learning
	1 What does it do? Machine learning is artificial intelligence, wherein massive amounts of data are compared to create probabilities, used in or as decision making. It usually involves either 
	specific techniques
	artificial general intelligence
	neural networks
	statistical analysis
	gpt-3
	statistical analyses based on human text - terabytes of it - and then trains itself based on statistical frequencies to produce human like
	deep learning is where the computer does the learning - nobody is guiding it, or programming.
	from the training set - artificial neural networks - real world data, and from that it produces an output - either a prediction or clarification
	supervised, semi-supervise and 
	unsupervised gets given a data set, and by using some sort of feedback loops, it is able to set up connections that model the data
	supervised training set is one which the models for success are manually applied by the operator or programmer
	2 What is the likely impact?
	3 How will this affect you?

Up to ~540 words for section 1 NLP. 1200 is still less than you'd think, but perhaps more than I, personally, thought.
Natural Language processing
	1 What does it do?
	Natural language processing is the study of human language as it can be understood by computers - words and their grammatical context being put into a strict logic, but also more importantly strict logic that allows for the understanding of more fuzzy logic words and their grammatical context.
	Natural language processing has its challenges, in that the languages that real people use do not often conform to formal language structure*. If they did, then translating them into data that a computer can process for its own tasks would, hypothetically, be roughly as simple as converting a program from one language to another. Attempts to push real-life language into unambiguous, perfectly rational and logical form, have mostly failed so far**, and so natural language processing is the endeavour to move in the other direction, and form a digital understanding of the language(s) that people already use, that can then be converted into a formal language.
	Natural language processing has a rich history dating back to the 1950s, but currently uses neural natural language processing,* which involves feature learning* and machine learning methods in the style of deep neural networks* to process terabytes of examples of human text*. This would logically be supervised learning*, meaning it requires manual correction for mistakes, because unsupervised learning would be circular in logic - it would require a machine that already knows valid language in order to validate the language.
	Natural language processing is found most commonly in daily life in personal virtual assistants, such as Alexa* or Google Assistant*. These apps listen at all times for a command which is intended to be difficult to encounter in ordinary conversation. For Alexa, it's "Hey Alexa," and for Google Assistant, it's "Okay Google." They send the recording over the internet to their respective servers for a two-step process: First the voice is run through voice recognition*, and then the voice, now text, is run through the natural language processing of the home servers. The additional computing power allows it to be done with minimal turnaround time*. The natural language processing allows the server to guess with increasing certainty what it was that the user meant for their virtual assistant to hear, and then to guess again what it was they wanted their virtual assistant to do. The virtual assistant then executes the orders sent by the home server.
	Virtual assistants, in this manner, have a variety of functions, including playing music, turning on or off devices, setting timers and other reminders, as well as many others*. In this manner, and using only their voice, a user can enact various kinds of utilitarian tasks that can be done by appliances and other machinery in their home.
	Natural language processing is also used by Facebook* for advertising purposes. When users have the Facebook app installed, the Facebook app listens for all words said in proximity to it, and sends that over the internet to its home servers. Similar to Alexa and Google Assistant, Facebook's high computing power allows it to use a two step process, that of converting the speech to text, and the text to language data, rather efficiently. Facebook corporate then stores this data as market research, which it uses for targeted advertisement placement as well as sellable market research for other companies.
	gpt-3 is an example of natural language processing
	siri, alexa, these are trained to receive and convert into data natural language processing (human language)
	chatbots
	vs formal languages

	2 What is the likely impact?
	3 How will this affect you?

Raspberry Pi/Arduino/Makey Makey/etc
	1 What does it do?
		Single Board Computers are small devices, commercially sold, commonly under the names "Raspberry Pi", "Arduino", "Makey Makey", and others. They differ from regular computers [in that their design is a single board, rather than with a separate graphics card, RAM, and 
	2 What is the likely impact?
	3 How will this affect you?
