Interview with Mitra Minai
Chief Security Information Officer (CSIO) Healthscope

Current Position

In Charge of defining & implementing Healthscopes's Security and Data Privacy strategy and road map to uplift the security posture of the Organisation and deliver effective Information Security and Privacy solutions and service across Healthscopes 43 hospitals.

Link to CIO Australia -https://www.cio.com/article/3527288/healthscope-appoints-mitra-minai-to-newly-created-ciso-role.html

About Healthscope (From https://healthscopehospitals.com.au)

Healthscope is one of Australia’s largest private hospital operators. They have 43 private hospitals (30 acute, seven mental hospitals & six rehabilitation hospitals) and mange three on behalf of Adelaide Community Healthcare Alliance. With over 18,000 employee’s,  their aim is to provide quality clinical outcomes and excellent patient experiences.

Career

Nab (2015-2019)
Head of Technology Specialist Controls
Led a team of highly specialised Risks and Controls professionals to deliver consistent and comprehensive risks and controls management frameworks and processes.
Principal Cyber Security Risks and Controls Advisor
Improve visibility of Security and Cybersecurity risks and related controls environments across the Enterprise by designing and rolling out a robust Security Threats and Controls framework.
Cybersecurity and Data Security Risk Lead
Charged with leading NAB’s Cybersecurity Risk Management Program, undertaking a risk based approach to identify the most critical business functions and sensitive Customer and Business Data; detect key threat exposures; and use insights to mobilise security solutions and key controls around the Bank’s riskiest operations.
Group Technology Risk Director
Responsible for formulating and prioritising the implementation of pragmatic solutions to meet Monetary Authority of Singapore(MAS) Technology Risk Management(TRM) requirements and uplift Technology Risk Management capabilities across the organisation.

ANZ (2009-2012)
Governance Integration Senior Manager
Operational Risk and Compliance Senior Manager

Earnest & Young (2007-2009)
Senior Manager - Risk Advisory Services

Accenture (2006-2007)
Manager - Finance and Performance Management

Nab
Technology Risk Manager (2005)

PWC
Senior Technology Risk Consultant (2003-2004)

ASIC
Forensic Investigator

Education
Monash University
Masters of Business Systems, Application Development
Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Computing

Memberships
ISACA  https://www.isaca.org/why-isaca/about-us
ISO  https://www.iso.org/what-we-do.html

The Interview Questions

Please tell us about your IT work. What exactly do you do? 
Please tell us about the industry you work in. 
What other kinds of work do you have to do? How has Covid impact you?
Who are all the different people you interact with in your work?  
Please tell us about your interactions with other IT professionals. 
Do you interact with clients or investors? 
What aspects of your work do you spend most time on? Please tell us about these. 
Which aspects of your work do you find most challenging? 
What is changing in your industry right now? 
What is likely to be possible in cybersecurity in the future that wasn't before?" 
What happens when a person or organisation has bad cybersecurity?"
Finally, can you share an example of the work you do that best captures the essence of 
the IT industry? 


Recording 
Link








