Name: Ahmet Polat
Student ID: S3870017
Ahmet is a 40 years old aspiring Information Technology student who is interested in Data Science, Artificial Intelligence, and Machine Learning.
He feels happy while doing outdoor activities with my friends and family. He loves camping, fishing, hiking, kayaking, and walking in nature.
He also love team sports, solving a puzzle and relaxing weekends.
His interest in IT started when he was a kid. It was triggered by the science fiction movies in the 1990s.He is spending most of my time on the computer since he got his first computer in 2000.
He is currently in the process to get by Bachelor's Degree in Information Technology. Besides, he is enrolled in various certificates to improve his knowledge in Machine Learning and Data Science.



Name: Jack Sharples
Student ID: S3871455
Jack is 26 and currently a manager at a restaurant in Melbourne, Australia. He is currently trying to expand his education and secure his place in the workforce with the recent events of COVID-19.
He is an avid video gamer and he enjoys tending to his plants when the sun is out. His interest in IT is both out of passion and nesscessity.
According to Myer-Briggs Jack tends to be bold and creative, deconstructing and rebuilding ideas with great mental agility. Although consequently he can be argumentative and insensitive to other ideas.



Name: Rob Harris
Student ID – S2086480
Rob has spent 30 years in the Financial Services industry, working across many functions, including credit, projects, training and employee relations.
The last 13 years he has specialised in Risk Management, during this time he supported a big four bank&#39;s digital business to deliver security enhancement
to internet banking and the implementation of the first mobile app and further iterations.
His interest in IT is two-fold, gain a better understanding of technology and its advancements to help in his current field; and, personally to gain a better understanding of IT,enabling him to educate his family ensure that they are protected.
Hi Myers-Briggs personality type is " Defender", ISFJ-T. Which would see Rob as loyal and hardworking and supportive of colleagues.  He may struggle generating new idea's or grasping abstract concepts.



Name: John Wilkins
Student ID: S3864587
With an affinity for information technologies from an early age, John has lent himself organically to assisting others with basic troubleshooting in otherwise unrelated contexts, such as at work and home.
His Myers-Briggs results were INFJ-A, "Advocate", which suggests a strong moral conviction and idealism that can translate to proactive goal setting and strong work ethic, both important aspects of a group dynamic.
His tactile/kinesthetic learning style and Ravenclaw hogwarts house make him best suited to a hands-on application of data-heavy pursuits, such as data analysis or software design.
This can complement others' expertise in other fields relating to project work, such as co-ordination, marketing and design, or record keeping.



Name: Luke Harding-Smith 
Student ID: S3872219
Luke currently works in IT (has for about a year and a half): in Helpdesk Support and IT Administration for a Group (Parent Company) Support Centre for over 200 nationwide automotive panel (accident repair) and 
mechanical repair centres. 
Luke’s fills his free time with playing basketball, casual video gaming and listening to music.  
His interest in IT is based on the belief it is an ever-expanding, ever evolving and ever-adaptive industry and he would like to progress in his current career. 
According to the Myers Briggs test, Luke is a Turbulent Logician, he is open to new ideas/open minded, prospective, imaginative and objective. He is  also introverted, intuitive and also has a think before feel kind of nature. 
For the learning style test; he is quite mixed between all learning styles;  he is more-so an auditory and visual learner that tactile. 
The Big Five Personality test or OCEAN test (Openness, Conscientiousness, Extraversion, Agreeableness and Neuroticism) says Luke is very open and conscientious and he is also apparently an “Empathic Idealist”: “uses insight and creativity to help others. Thinks about how the world could be a better and more beautiful place.” 
